Objective:
The main objective of this assessment is to analyze our marketing data, specifically focusing on user click data and subsequent user actions leading up to sales. Each click event is associated with a specific marketing channel, and your task is to attribute user actions to these channels. Your analysis should help us understand the relative performance for each channel.

Dataset Description:
Working with five datasets provided in CSV format in the data folder that will be preloaded in the starter code. These datasets encompass various aspects of marketing data. A brief description of each dataset is as follows:

1. Click Data: This dataset contains all click events that lead users to Carvana.com from various paid marketing channels.

click_datetime
channel_id
user_id
Once customers land on the site, they may find a vehicle they are interested in purchasing. When the customer initiates the purchase, this is called a "lock" as the vehicle has been locked (i.e., a different customer will not be able to start the purchase process on that same vehicle) until the customer either completes the purchase or backs out. Not every lock will convert to a completed sale.

2. Lock Data: This dataset contains all locks done by users:

lock_id
lock_datetime
user_id
3. Sale Data: This dataset contains all sales:

user_id
lock_id
sale_datetime
sale_id
gross_profit
4: Spend Data: This dataset contains daily marketing spend:

date
channel_id
spend
5: Ad Channels: This dataset contains all information for each marketing channel:

channel_id
channel_name
Note: For the ad channels, the channel_name is in the format of category-partner_campaign for the marketing channel. Some channels have separate campaigns within them and some don't. Treat the partnership as its own campaign if it doesn't have one. While we’ve provided dummy names in these datasets, the categories, partners, and campaigns mimic real-life examples (e.g., an advertising category could be social or search, an advertising partner could be Google or Disney, and a campaign could be split into different age groups or other customer segments). You will need to parse these out for the following questions

Task:
We are interested in understanding the relative performance of each marketing channel in 2022 to inform our course of action for the next year. To do so, we need to understand the economics of each channel, with metrics such as Cost total Per Click (CPC = advertising spend divided by total clicks), Customer Acquisition Cost (CAC = advertising spend divided by sales), and Return on Investment (ROI = gross profit divided by advertising spend).

Additionally, we want to know if there are any partnerships or even individual campaigns which are under or over performing so that we can act appropriately.

Important: You will perform this analysis using first-touch attribution, which in marketing terms means identifying the first interaction a user has with our brand and linking it to any later user actions. This involves manipulating the provided datasets to locate the first click each user made through our marketing channels and associating it with any subsequent locks and sales (e.g., a customer who first clicked a KnickKnack ad, then a DatAnkle ad would be fully attributed to the KnicKnack channel, with zero credit given to DatAnkle). This will help identify which channels are most effective at tiating customer journeys that result in sales.

Questions to Answer:
Performance & Economics

What category of channel has the lowest cost per click?
What are the top three partnerships in terms of sales generated by first touch attribution?
Which campaigns had the most month-over-month percent growth/decline in sales generated from Oct to Dec?
Which partner is the most cost efficient, i.e., has the lowest CAC
Which category of channel has the best ROI? The worst?
Incrementality

On average, how many different channels do customers interact with prior to locking a car?
What percentage of sales don't have a click within 90 days prior to the conversion? How can you explain this?
Open Ended

Based on what you know about channel performance, what recommendation would you give for re-allocating spend given we are increasing budget by 20% next year?
Calculation Equations:¶
CPC = Spend/Total Clicks

CAC = Spend/Sales

ROI = Profit/Spend
